# American Military Operation Name Generating Device

This was originally a CGI script from October 2001:

http://www.ftrain.com/cgi-bin/l_operation.cgi?num_ops=10

## Example usage

At the ```$``` command prompt:

```$ ./amongd.pl```

Expected results:

```Operation Evangelical Frenzy```

You can also provide an integer in order to generate multiple
military operating names at once.

At the ```$``` command prompt:

```$ ./amongd.pl 10```

Expected results:

```
Operation Bowel-loosening Gorgon
Operation Black Liberty
Operation Destructive Privet Bush
Operation Hungry Nakba
Operation Piercing Weasel
Operation Strong Frenzy
Operation Endless Tiger
Operation Indestructible Gorgon
Operation Don't Piss off the Delirium
Operation Brutal Chick Pea
```

## About this software

### History

This software program was written in late 2001 when we were all
pretty depressed about the turn of events and everyone in positions
of power in the media and in government appeared to have lost their
minds. And still appear to have lost their minds, frankly.

I had been working at a startup in Israel and thinking about the way
that European and Middle Eastern cultures interact. I lost my job in
Tel Aviv on September 13, 2001 and went home to Brooklyn. Downtown
Manhattan was a huge smoking hole and everything smelled like
burning concrete everywhere you went. I talked to people on the
phone a lot and sent many long emails during that era.

I was 26 and there was no work anywhere, so I made this CGI script
and put it on the web. Some people found it in poor taste. It was in
poor taste. But it was also an era where New Yorkers would go to the
gym together and stand on the ellipticals and watch the
billowing-flag graphics on TV, and whisper to each other "Freedom!"
and laugh. *Freedom, let's roll, let the eagle soar, justice*--these
became words often-used by people who did not live here, used to
justify a global network of tremendous and disturbing things in the
months and years following. 

Not that New Yorkers didn't want justice, or freedom. We wanted both
of those things very much.

### User Reactions

Reactions were mixed. Some friends who had been in the middle of the
attack reloaded and reloaded the page and laughed. One friend of
mine who lost a number of people in the attacks looked at the web
page generated by this code and gently said, "it's a little too soon
for it to be funny for me."

Before we started bombing Afghanistan, she called me on the phone to
read me an email from a friend of hers who worked somewhere in the
middle of the government, a place where big decisions were
made. They were still formulating their response.

"Nuclear weapons have not been ruled out." That was a thing she read
over the phone to me, that someone wrote to her in an email.

### Current Usage

This script now has a weird second-life on the Internet as a
tool for various people who need military-sounding names for work or
hobbies, including military history re-enactors.

At some point, the wars in Afghanistan and Iraq will be fair game
for the re-enactors, with the same fake weapons and the same
enemies. And Americans will put on the clothes of the Taliban. Maybe
American women (or men) will wear burqas as part of the
reenactment. We're not there yet, it still feels almost
impossible. But things like that always come around much sooner than
you think.

Maybe this Perl script, which was intended as a parody of the news
during the miserable early fall in October 2001, when New York's
throat burned, can become part of that very advanced form of play.

## License

This code is released GPL3.


